OK. First of all, Mr. Dunn, would you tell us
something about your early life, including the
names of your parents, the dates of their birth and
death, if you know them, where they were born,
where you were born, and the schools you attended
before you entered Texas A&M? Well, my father was
born in Arkansas,
in Dallark. and came to Texas and settled around
near Lancaster, Texas, south of Dallas. And at an
age, when he was about 12 years old, with his
father, he was orphaned at a young age and grew up on
a farm in Dallas County.
went to work for the postal system and worked in the
postal system until his death in 1936 at the age of
57. My mother... Your father's name? My father's
name was Charles Allen Dunn. My mother was born
in...
at Lavon near McKinney, Texas, Collin County, I
believe. And was a one of large, one child of a large
family. Her mother died when she was three years
old and she was raised mostly by her aunt in the
Rockwall County
near Dallas. She
taught school in a country school near Lancaster
where she met my father and they were married in the
year 1902.
I was raised in Dallas and attended the grade
school and the Oak Cliff High School in Dallas
before I went to A&M.
I had one brother and one sister. My brother
graduated from Texas A&M in chemical
engineering, and my sister attended CIA before
her marriage.
They are both deceased. My mother and father are
both deceased, and I'm the only remaining member
of the family still living. Could you tell us what
was your mother's name? My mother's name was
Charlotte Webb. And
she always told me that I was going to A&M and I
didn't know there was any other school. But when I
left to go go to college, I had $100 in my pocket and
somehow managed to graduate
in mechanical engineering four years later with
about $1,500 in the bank.
Is that enough for the background? You mentioned
the fact that your mother had always said you were
going to A&M. I was going to ask you what factors
were involved in your choice of A&M. It looks as
though your mother chose the school for you. Well,
my brother had entered A&M two years before, and I
didn't know anything about any other school.
The reason my mother said I was going to A&M, she
didn't know how we could pay for it, but she was so
determined that I get an education that she always
told me that I'd be able to work it out, which I did.
What were the procedures which you went through to
enter A&M?
I don't recall anything except getting off of the
H&TC train about 4 o'clock in the morning in
College Station and
waiting until time to go to the registration
office. In those days, I don't believe we had the
formal application and acceptance, I did have my
high school record and was enrolled the day I
arrived. Then you arrived there just in time for
the classes to start in the fall, I would take it.
Yes. What were your first reactions to the college
and to the community of College Station when you
arrived there at 4 o'clock in the morning? Or I
guess that's kind of difficult to ask you what your
reactions were at that time, but your immediate
reactions to the school once you got there. It was
all very strange to me. I'd never seen the school,
although my brother had been there two years. And
it was a rather lonesome feeling.
I believe it was the farthest I'd ever been away
from home.
But I immediately began to
get familiar with the
habits then that were predominant. The freshman
wasn't long in finding out his place on the campus
and was kept busy. I didn't, my first trip home was
for the Christmas holidays. So during that period
of time, if I had not been as busy as I was trying to
pay off the note I made with the college to enroll.
In those days, we had no student loan funds, but the
college would accept your note provided you
paid it all off before you enrolled the next
semester. So I went to the student labor people
obtained work at 25 cents an hour, which included
cleaning out the horse barns and picking up papers
and trash on the campus and chopping weeds and so
forth. And that was in the beginning before I was
able to obtain a regular job. Now, my first job
which I kept three years, was waiting on tables in
the mess hall. It paid about $20 a month in those
days and almost paid for my entire expense for a
college board and room.
But after that, I began to get other jobs lined up.
Were there limitations on the number of hours you
could work a week? No. You could work any time you
weren't in class.
OK. This money which you earned, did the school pay
that to you and then you repay it to the school? Or
did they just deduct it from your account that you?
They just credited to my note. I never saw any
money. Until you didn't see anything. You had the
note all paid off then. Yes. OK. Would you describe
a typical day from, say, the time you got up in the
morning and the procedure of getting up,
approximately how many hours you spent in class a
day, what you did on your other activities, and
then the procedure for going to bed and what time
you went to bed? Well, of course, that varied. I
worked all of my spare time. But the
schedules were irregular. The days you had lab
work, you had more hours. And the day you had just
regular classes, you had less. And then
I
had to get up around 6.30 in the morning in order to
get to the mess hall. on time in those days. We had
when you got this mess hall job was one of the most
sought after employment job because it didn't
take time except just before and during mealtime.
The rule was that if As many as three of the waiters
were absent at any one meal, they all lost their
job. But if one or two was absent, then they didn't
lose their job. But I couldn't take a chance on
losing my job, so I was always present. And then
classes, first class would start at 8 o'clock, and
on the days that we had the lab work, why, sometimes
they'd run as late as 5, with some hours off in
between, some time off in between. And then we had
quarter quarters at 7.30.
And in those days, every student had to be in his
room at 7.30 and could not be out for any purpose
without a pass. And this
was very strict discipline administered by the
upperclassmen in the dormitory. Who could issue
the pass? Your commanding officer in the
dormitory. Your company commander. Yeah,
that... That would be only for purposes like going
to the library and other legitimate reasons. And
you were not allowed to visit other rooms.
So you either stayed in your room and studied, or
you stayed in the room and looked at the walls. What
about if you needed some help from somebody on,
say, a particular problem that you had to work out
in a chemistry class or something? Could you get
permission to go to someone else in your class then
for aid in working out the problem? Yes. Yes, you
could. And there was always someone available,
usually an upper student, who was willing to help
you. Now, did you have... A guard patrolling the
hallways? No, we did not have. The reason I ask is
because at one point I believe they did. At one
point, but that was before my time. Before your
time. Okay. Then you said you got up about 6.30 and
went to the mess hall. I take it then most of the
fellow students got up after you did. Yes, they...
I've forgotten whether breakfast is 7 or 7.30, but
they had to march to the mess hall for all meals.
Each company would
respond to the bugle call for
getting up call to formation and and then of course
they had bugle call for call to quarters and for
taps at night and after 11 o'clock your lights had
to be out and they you weren't permitted except in
special cases to keep them on after 11 o'clock if
you had some studying that you hadn't gotten done.
You've talked about working in the mess hall and
marching there in formation. What was the food
like in the mess hall? Well, it really wasn't bad,
but you got a little tired of it, I guess, as they do
even today. But there was plenty of food, and most
all students
did very well on the food because of the regular
meals
and sufficient amount of it. They gained weight
very rapidly and we got along well. But there was a
lot of complaining, griping about food at times
because
of the sameness of it. Did you have a pretty
standard menu, same each week, or each day of each
week, or did they kind of alter the, if you had, did
you have steak on the same day every week, or? We
never had steak, that I recall. But they had, of
course, the training tables had steak, but I
didn't have access to a training table until my
junior year when I was on the cross-country team.
But I'd say that all in all the food was very good and
the proof of the pudding is that the students
gained weight and kept in good condition. Well, I
imagine they had plenty of physical exercise to
help in keeping them in condition. Yes, plenty of
exercise. Of course, on the drill fields and
athletics and intramural activities gave
everybody an opportunity to get plenty of
exercise. Of course, in those days, you walked
everywhere you went. No car was allowed on the
campus. No marriage student was allowed to attend
A&M.
Everyone
lived in the dormitory. Did anybody ride a
bicycle? Yes, a few of the college professors did.
No students, though? I don't recall any students
having a bicycle. Well, I ask that for two reasons.
Partly, today, of course, bicycles are very
popular on campus, and we have an old picture or two
showing the front of a dormitory that has a bicycle
in it. Well, they could have been, but they weren't
predominant in those days. What was life like in
the dormitory? Well, during the
periods when there was no quarter quarters, it got
pretty noisy and rough at times. The boys amused
themselves in various ways, such as finding one of
their classmates asleep in bed and drowning him
out by pouring water on him. And there was a good
deal of hell-raising during the hours that they
weren't under restrictions. So the hours of
restriction were after 7.30 in the evening? Yes,
yes. earlier than that say between 6 30 in the
morning and 7 30 in the evening they could do pretty
well as they wanted to yes and they did and they did
okay what dormitories did you live in if you can
remember yes i can remember i uh my freshman year i
lived on the fourth stoop of old foster hall there
was only about three rooms on the fourth stoop i
remember the bath and the The shower and the
bathrooms were on the first floor, and so I had to go
up and down those steps
to take my shower and back up to my room. But there
was some advantage in living up there in the small
area. There wasn't quite as much activity. In my
sophomore year, I lived in the Bazell Hall. Now,
A&M has, at many times during its history, faced
housing shortages. In my freshman year and my
sophomore year, I lived in the room with two other
students, three in a room. And then my junior year,
there wasn't any housing at all in
the dormitories for some of the companies and my
company, Company E Infantry, was put in army
tents. And then a few, two or three months after
that, they had built the shacks, they called them.
In place of the canvas, they had built wooden
shacks. We had wood-burning
stoves with the smokestack up through the middle.
We had a light cord with a bulb on the end of it, a
kitchen table, and two kitchen chairs,
but only two to a shack. Were these what was known as
the Hollywood shacks? Yes. They were all wood
then? Not in the beginning. There were 16-foot
square army tents with a wooden floor, and then
later on they built the shacks on the same floor. At
one time they all had canvas tents with, I guess,
dirt floors, and then later they had some wooden
walls with canvas roofs. Well, I went through
that, but never a dirt floor. It was a... That was
about 1910, I believe. Well, that was before my
time. But in my time, when I recall
these housing situations when I was in school and I
look at this beautiful dormitory that has my name
on it, I see that we've come a long way. Yes, we have.
Where did you live your senior year? My senior year
I lived in Mitchell Hall in a corner basement room.
Did you ever have any problem with bugs or anything
like that in your rooms? Well,
there were some
times when the bugs were discovered in some of the
dormitories and then the fumigation process took
care of it. I was wondering, because you know
Charlie Crawford. Yes. He was telling me about a
problem he had with bugs in his room at one point and
measures he took to keep them out of his room. Well,
they weren't in his room. They were in somebody's
room in his company, I think. Well, it happened on
occasion while I was in school, but not in my room.
And the school took pretty immediate measures to
get rid of them, I take it, as soon as they were
discovered. You mentioned earlier that the
upperclassmen saw to it that you were busy and that
you learned your place pretty quickly after you
got there. Could you tell us a little bit about what
privileges the upperclassmen did have over the
freshmen, and what things they had you freshmen
do? Well, I had the privilege of keeping three
rooms in addition to my own in my freshman year. And
the upperclassmen in those days would pick out a
freshman and then you were known as their fish and
of course you had a little problem in case their
room did not pass room inspection as well as your
own so when we got through with that breakfast
before and before eight o'clock i had a very busy
time of cleaning rooms These were three
upperclassmen in your company? Yes. Three rooms.
Three rooms. With two and sometimes as many as
three in a room. So by keeping the room, this meant
cleaning it, making up the bunk and everything?
Yes.
What else did you have to do for the upperclassmen?
Run errands.
And sometimes there were little burdensome, but
you had to be ready to go when they wanted to send out
for something or
take their cleaning to Charlie Nitch's cleaning
shop or whatever errands were to be done. I guess
when you were there, they didn't have candy
machines and soda machines quite as prolifically
as they do today. No. When I was there, we either ate
in the mess hall or at Casey's Confectionary.
There was no place to buy food off the campus, no
stores.
went back and forth to Bryan when, on a few
occasions, we went on the Tuna Vale Trolley, which
was a little electrical railroad car, street car
type thing, that was really a Tuna Vale Trolley,
cost 15 cents each way, and I usually didn't have
the 15 cents, and I had no reason to go to Bryan
anyway. But the... as
we had quite a bit of hazing in those days, and it was
a question of learning to live with it and enjoy it,
so to speak, and actually it...
served to tie you closer to the
students, although it was never
justified. It was prevalent.
Would you say that sometimes the upperclassmen
abused the freshmen? Yes. Human nature is the same
wherever you find it. And that was, I never knew of
anyone getting hurt. But it was a pretty rough
treatment at times. You indicated that if the
upperclassman whose room you were keeping didn't
pass inspection as well as your own, you were apt to
get into trouble. Would this involve a leather
strap in any way? Or what kind of trouble did you get
into? Usually a board. A board. A fish paddle?
Yeah. We've got a couple of those fish paddles in
the archives.
I think we're about at the end of this. Let me speed
it up and get to the end.